>> Brian Holt: So
classes are a special type of attribute,
anything can have a class on it.
There are some things, there are many
things you'll not use classes for, but
any tag can have a class.
So, what classes are for, they in and
of themselves don't do anything.
So if you give something a class,
it's not necessarily going
to do anything by itself.
But it's basically like you sticking,
like, a post-it note on that and
saying, like,
this is this kinda theme, right?
So, I can have ten different
kind of divs on my page and
you're making like,
this is a blog post div.
And this one is a navigation div.
And it's like, you're labelling each
one of them at different kind of div.
Right, because there is
not that many tags so
you could use a different kind of tag for
each one.
So you need to kind of be able to invent
your own sort of labeling system.
That's really what this is,
is you're just labeling things here.
In summary, the way that CSS works is
that you make rules for things, right?
So you're saying if this is a div,
it's colored green.
However, if you have a a large website,
like something like Gmail,
you have literally thousands of divs.
So you can't just say all
divs are colored green,
because you don't want everything
colored green on Gmail.
That doesn't make any sense.
So, what you do is you basically say,
this is a blog post div, and
I want all blog post divs colored green.
So you're saying like,
affect only these kinds of divs.
So, if you go back to our house analogy,
you don't wanna say every two by four
that I have goes on the south wall,
because then you don't have any two by
fours for the other three walls, right?
So what you'll do is you'll
mark some of the two by fours.
Like, these are south wall two by fours,
and only those ones go on the south wall,
and then these ones can go
in other places, right?
So that's what classes are for.
They allow you to label things so
that different things can affect them,
both from CSS and from JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: What you name
them ends up being important.
Not because, it was actually div there,
it's not important for
screen readers, that's one thing
that I wanted to point out.
Is that the classes are not used
by anything else other than you.
So, if you give them a bad name,
the only person that you're kind
of like screwing over is yourself.
[LAUGH] And
your future coworkers and such.
So, make sure you name them good things,
and I'll give you some suggestions here
in just a second about what to name them.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see here,
I kinda gave you an example of what this
might look like, giving things good names.
So that's what this class
equals business looks like.
So this is a header div.
This is a header-title.
These are blog posts.
This is a post.
This is a post, right.
Notice that I have multiple posts, right.
It makes sense if you're
going through a blog,
they have multiple posts on there, right.
So, you would call each
one of them a post, so
that you can style them the same way.
You can make JavaScript
affect them in the same way.
And you can see that's what
this looks like right here.
So my blog will look like this.
And I used CSS to make
these look like this.
So that's why they look,
we'll talk about how to do that in
the next section or two sections.
So, yeah,
the reason why I called this a post and
this a post is because I wanted them
both to have these grey outlines.
And if I didn't call them the same thing,
if I called this something else,
>> Brian Holt: Notice it lost its
border, right?
But as soon as they're both called post,
then they both have
that gray border,
because I made CSS rules that affect post.
>> Brian Holt: Any
questions about classes?
Does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So, yeah, I have
multiple posts on the same page, and
that's why classes are really useful,
is because they are very reusable.
So, if I make a post here, even if
I go to another part of my website,
I can still use that post
class that I created.